Donald John Trump (born June 14, 1946) is the 45th and current President of the United States. Before entering politics he was a businessman and television personality.

Trump was born and raised in Queens, New York City,
and earned an economics degree from the
Wharton School of the University of
Pennsylvania. He then took charge of The Trump
Organization, the
real estate and construction firm founded by his paternal grandmother, which
he ran for four and a half decades until 2017. During his real estate career,
Trump has built, renovated, and managed numerous office towers, hotels,
casinos, and golf courses. Besides real estate, he started several side
ventures and has licensed the use of his name for the branding of various
products and properties. He owned the Miss USA
and Miss Universe pageants from 1996
to 2015, and he hosted The
Apprentice , a reality television series on NBC, from 2004 to 2015. His
calculated net worth as of
2017
is $3.5 billion, making him the 544th richest person in the world.

Trump first publicly expressed interest in running for political office in
1987. He won two Reform
Party presidential primaries in 2000, but withdrew his
candidacy early on. In June 2015, he launched his campaign for the 2016
presidential election and quickly emerged as the front-runner
among 17 candidates in the Republican
primaries. His final opponents suspended their
campaigns in May 2016, and in July he was formally nominated at the
Republican National Convention along with Indiana governor Mike
Pence as his running
mate. Many of his campaign statements
were controversial or false, generating much free media
coverage.

Trump won the general election on November 8, 2016, in a surprise victory
against Democratic  opponent Hillary Clinton. He became the
oldest and
wealthiest person to assume the
presidency, the first without prior military or government
service, and the
fifth elected with
less than a plurality 
of the national popular vote
. His political positions have
been described by scholars and commentators as populist, protectionist, and
nationalist.

